---
title: Introduction to Apache Solr - Part 1
author: admin
layout: post
permalink: /2015/11/intro-solr-1/
categories:
  - Java
  - Solr
tags:
  - java
  - solr
  - apache
  - lucene
  - search
---

#What is Solr?

Straight from **Apache Solr's** [website](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/ "Apache Solr"):
>Solr is the popular, blazing-fast, open source enterprise search platform built on Apache Lucene™

**Solr** can be used to add search functionality to your data, offering powerful, easy-to-configure tools that can get you from 0 to full-fledged search in a matter of hours!

I have been asked to conduct sessions on **Solr** at work, and to train and help people learn Solr quickly. I decided that it's time that I put whatever I learned into a blog to make it easier both for me to collect my sessions in one place, and to help people get started with Solr quickly.

The topics I'll be covering are:

1. Installation
2. Simple MySQL Configuration
3. Tokenizers
4. Filters
5. Java Example

Note: This is not an authoritative blog. I might miss a lot of technical refinery, and the solutions I offer might not be the best way to do something. I have deployed Solr on a few different production environments and they have worked as planned, but it might not work for you. I suggest that you use this blog as a starting point to get started with Solr and to play around with the different functionality offered by it before you deploy a production-ready system.

#Part 1

##Installation
You can download Solr from the official site here: 

http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html 

Find the version that suits you. Often the latest one works great out of the box. At the time of writing this, version `5.3.1` was the latest. This session will be based on it.

###Windows
To start `Solr` on Windows, extract the zip file into a suitable folder (With sufficient storage space for 
###Linux